Anohana is one of those rare anime's that takes a genre that's often misused by anime creators or hated by the community, and makes is right. It will have you start feeling for the characters from episode one, and may even have you in tears in the first episode. But I guarantee you, that you will be hit hard by the time this series ends. I even start to feel like crying simply by thinking about this anime.The story follows a high school drop-out named "Jintan". The anime beings when he starts to have "hallucinations" of his childhood crush, "Menma", who died in an accident when he was young. A couple of years lates, she comes back to the living world and explains to Jintan that she cannot be reincarnated (yes, there is Buddhism, but it's only mentioned in the beginning and end) because her dying wish has not been granted. Now it's up to Jintan to re-unite with his old childhood friends who have gone their separate ways since Menma's death and fulfill her wish.From the title of this review, I said that this was a 'Drama Done Right'. Why do I say that? Let me explain it to you.Most drama anime are not "true" drama series. In fact, there are more like melodramas.And in case you do not know what a melodrama is (and to save you some time), a melodrama is a show where characters constantly over-exaggerate and the plot is extremely complex. This is all for the purpose of keeping things interesting and keeping the audience's attention.
But since the anime community is literally being drowned in melodrama shows, we've gotten sick of it all by now...How is "Anohana" different than this? Well, it's not a melodrama. It's a true drama.For starters, "Anohana" has a simple and (mostly) realistic plot. It's very easy to understand and follow, which will allow you to watch this anime with ease. Yet despite this, it's still very entertaining and fun to watch because what's going on in the anime and the characters themselves are very easy to relate to.Usually in a drama anime, every single character is selfish, stupid and sullen (the terrible triple "S" emotions). This makes the anime less enjoyable, and maybe even painful to watch.But the creators of"Anohana" thankfully decided to stick to it's "slice of life" setting and keep the characters realistic instead of relying on overused stereotypes.The characters express and feel a variety of emotion, just like any normal human being would. The show also gives the audience time to connect with all the characters; explore their nature and their lives.And as you get closer to the end, they all come together again, all knots are tied, everyone's lives change, and tears are shed.But not by me, of course. I just like to cut onions while I watch T.V...In conclusion, "Anohana" is a rare masterpiece of a genre that's constantly misused, and I'm very impressed because of it. I'd recommend this anime for anyone fourteen and up, since you won't really understand half of this anime if you aren't.If you want to keep any shred of masculinity you have left, and any small ounce of doubt that you could cry over a cartoon, don't watch this anime. Your heart could be made of stone, iron, you name it, Anohana will destroy you.Mind you, it's ability to make you crawl into a fetal position and soak yourself in salty tears shouldn't be the show's only quality. After all, Anohana only accomplishes this feat through excellent characterization and story telling. It tells an absolutely wonderful story about a group of old friends deal
